---
noIndex: true
icon: circle-sort-up
cover: ../.gitbook/assets/LinkedIn Cover (1).png
coverY: 0
layout:
  width: default
  cover:
    visible: true
    size: hero
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
  metadata:
    visible: true
---

# 4. Thermostat Installation

### 1. Go back inside and your thermostat should be working to finalize the pre-install test.

<details>

<summary>More details...</summary>

* If set to **HEAT**:
  * If the heat is **not blowing,** don’t touch the thermostat.
  * If heat **is blowing,** walk outside and see if the **condenser fan** is spinning.
    * If the fan IS spinning, its a Heat Pump system.
    * If Fan IS NOT spinning, its a Conventional system.

- If set to **COOL**:
  * And Cool is not blowing, don’t touch the Thermostat
  * If Cool is blowing, proceed to installation.

</details>

### 2. Start the Thermostat Flow in Tech Genie (this is a TOOL, not a TASK).

### 3. Power down the Furnace/Air Handler.

<details>

<summary>More details...</summary>

* Turn the Fan for the Furnace to the “ON” position.
  * Ensure it is NOT on Auto.

- Turn off Power
  * Use Breaker on front of Handler
  * Turn off HVAC switch (Looks like a normal light switch) near furnace or handler
  * Turn off Breaker in Main Home Breaker panel.&#x20;
    * You can also confirm power is off if it has a common wire (C terminal).
      * Remove any batteries from Thermostat
      * Put therm faceplate back on
      * Lights should return to the old therm faceplate
      * When you turn off the right breaker or switch, the lights will go away
  * When you turn off the power using the correct breaker/switch, the fan will stop instantly.
    * Do NOT proceed until the power is off. And fan is not blowing.



</details>

### 4. Install the Thermostat.

### 5. Attempt to pair the thermostat so that it fails.

### 6. Program the therm using the Therm Flow Cheat Sheet.

### 7. Test the new thermostat for Heat/Cool.

